now sarai abram's wife had borne him no
children and she had an Egyptian
maidservant whose name was Hagar so said
I said to Abram see now the Lord has
restrained me from bearing children
please go into my maid perhaps I shall
obtain children by her and Abram heeded
the voice of Sarai then said I Abraham's
wife took Hagar her maid the Egyptian
and gave her to her husband Abram to be
his wife after Abram had dwelt 10 years
in the land of Canaan so he went in to
Hagar and she conceived and when she saw
that she had conceived her mistress
became despised in her eyes then Sarai
said to Abram my wrong be upon you I
gave my maid into your embrace and when
she saw that she had conceived
I became despised in her eyes the Lord
judge between you and me indeed your
maid is in your hand do to her as you
pleased
and when Sarai dealt harshly with her
she fled from her presence
now the angel of the Lord found her by a
spring of water in the wilderness by the
spring on the way to shore
and he said Hagar Sarai's me wherever
you come from and where are you going
I'm fleeing from the presence of my
mistress Sarai return to your mistress
and submit yourself under her hand I
will multiply your descendants
exceedingly so that they shall not be
counted for multitude behold you are
with child and you shall bear a son you
shall call his name Ishmael because the
Lord has heard you affliction he shall
be a wild man his hands shall be against
every man and every man's hand against
him and he shall dwell in the presence
of all his brethren then she called the
name of the Lord who spoke to her you
are the God who sees for she said I also
here seen him who sees me
therefore the well was called viella
highly observe it is between kadesh and
bered so Hagar bore Abram a son and
Abram named his son whom Hagar bore
Ishmael Abram was eighty-six years old
when Hagar bore Ishmael to Abram